What are we going to do next is to make it so that when you click on this action icon there, we want
to be taken to a screen such as this, which is this search screen.
When does that happen?
Well, back to our main.
Let's get rid of this widgets.
Back to our main screen in our weather app.
This is where all of that is happening.
So you remember earlier, I think I had added that callback, right?
Which was the on add.
I believe.
Let's see.
That's the icon.
We don't need that.
Let's see, make sure I get the right thing.
After the knife controller, I'm going to say on an action.
Action clicked.
I think that's the name of it.
And in this case, right?
That's the one, right?
In this case here, it's a slam dunk can pass.
Of course, the event that needs to happen.
What is that?
I want to happen here.
Well, let's go back to our weather app.
First of all, OK, so weather app on action.
Clicked, I don't think I have that anything with it.
Let's see.
That's the search icon.
Great.
So this is where I need to call it so on, add action quick.
I'm going to just go say, invoke like that.
And one more.
I think it's going to be let's see, it's going to be the on button clicked.
We'll get to that.
It's OK, let's focus on one thing at a time.
All right, there we go.
And so now here what I want to happen is very simple.
All I want to happen is, say, nav controller, and I'm going to say, navigate and make sure we get
the correct one, which is this one, the route string like this.
And I'm going to say whether screens right?
I'm going to go to our search.
Screen, right, name like this.
Now, I'm not sure if we have a search screen created.
Let's see if that's true.
Nope, I don't have it.
Let's, first of all, create a new package here.
Call this search very good.
And inside there, I'm going to create a new cuddling class.
It's just going to be a file.
Called the search screen like this at composable.
Search screen and say, no, I like to pass out knife controller.
Let's make sure I function fun.
I guess Kathleen is fun.
Such a.
And what I'm going to do while I'm here.
Let's go ahead and close.
That is I'm going to right away and scaffold is very handy, as you know, I'm going to put a top bar
like this.
And then here I'm going to put a surface, I'm recording, you say hello.
Oh no, that was my beautiful wife.
All right, moving on surface.
I'm going to add a column real quick here.
And for now, this is a text.
OK, that should be OK.
Let's remove those qualifiers.
That's very good.
Now, we're not done yet because we need to go back.
Remember to our navigator for navigation, whatever we call it, weather navigation.
There is.
And we need to create that composable right inside of our nav host.
That is the contract.
All right.
Very simple, really.
And so far, I'm going to get rid of that.
And we'll have to add a new one later, but it's fine.
And this is going to be a search screen and seeing that the search screen, the actual search screen
like that and we should be good.
So now that we have all the pieces together.
Can get rid of that.
Let's see.
Navigate to a screen, will know exactly what to do.
Let's go and see.
OK, wonderful.
Click on Search and voila!
We went to search screen.
Very good.
But that's not what we want.
We want something like this first.
We're going to look at the app bar.
All right.
So our top bar there doesn't have anything, but we can change that.
In fact, we will change that.
I'm going to use the weather app bar we created.
I'm going to pass our nav controller.
I'm very good friend.
And then I'm going to make it.
So that is customize, meaning I'm going to pass in new icons and say, icon like this is going to be
icons.
Default, arrow back like that.
And that is Maine is going to be false, could be not in Maine, and we passed enough controller.
That's totally fine.
And then of course, this has a lot more than the last function when that is clicked.
And once they now have controller, I'm going to pop back stock.
So that means now if I run this, you will see.
OK, I go y la very nice, I can go back and it's working for the title just saying title, because
that's the default because we didn't add anything here.
That is fine, ladies and gentlemen, because we can go ahead and say title.
Let's see, I think title has to be the first one.
It's a title.
I just say search.
OK.
Quick search, very good.
I can go back and forth.
Nice.
Now what we want to do, of course, is to have, of course, this.
Farm, in this case is just a text field so that users can add a CD and enter and then be taken back
to our main screen and show the actual forecast, the weather forecast for that city.
OK, so instead of text here, we don't need that.
What?
I'm going to pass.
In fact, let's go back to our surface here.
Know.
Let's see how actually our column?
I'm going to say vertical alignment.
Arrangement that is I want to be senator and horizontal alignment center horizontally as such.
OK.
And so inside here is where I'm going to add the form or in this case, the text field, but I'm going
to call it form.
So the bottom I'm going to.
So at the bottom here, I'm going to create a composable, say fun.
Actually, first it's going to be a composable.
Create this called search.
Called this search bar.
I think that works fine.
OK, so I'm going to pass the on search
function here as a parameter, and I'm going to pass in a string as its own parameter, right, and
is going to return a unit like this.
OK, now what's going on now, what's going to happen here?
Well, inside here, I'm going to create a column just to organize things, really.
There's no other reason.
And then I'm going to call yet another composable.
This composable is called common text field.
Now this common text field we haven't created yet, but you will see in a second here.
So I'm going to pass a few values here or parameters or arguments state.
It's going to be a search query.
State and we a pass it place holder.
Called Seattle.
And then on action.
I'm just going broke the keyboard actions, which is a lambda and inside here, I'm going to put if
and if statement to say, OK, this is too much.
OK.
Right.
That's OK for now.
Let's go ahead and create this puppy here.
Great as composable.
All right.
So this composable has a few things we need to pass.
That's OK.
So value state for a value state here, it's going to be a mutable state.
You'll see in a second here of type string like this.
And placeholder, that's fine.
And then I'm going to pass a few others here, such as keyboard type that I need when this is invoked
and I'm just going to set it right away to keyboard
type guy text.
Like this, I am a actions.
We just set it to default that next, so it shows that next action, if you click on next, then it's
going to retrieve the information from the keyboard that was entered into the field.
Right?
And for keyboard actions here, I'm also going to add.
Keyboard actions.
Default like this as default values for own action.
OK, so inside here is where I'm going to then create this field.
There are different kinds of fields we can create, but I'm going to use the outlined outlined text
field such.
And for the valley, I'm going to pass the values state that value.
And on value changed right to lambda and say values state that value may set that to the changes that
are coming from our text.
This is what are we doing here is that whatever we getting or users have added in our tax field, we
are setting that into a valley state, which is the state of these.
We're setting that into our values, state value in this case, so that we have what is inside here
so we can use it.
So we have more parameters we need to pass.
We could pass for our outlying text field and we're going to pass a few just to complete the picture.
So we have value.
We have really changed.
Let's continue and add something more.
I want to pass in a label.
It's a landmark, you can pass a text and this text will just have a placeholder, right?
And I'm going to say max lines, just going to say one.
I want to make this a single line to true.
That means our field will only allow one line.
And for keyboard types.
Options in this case, I'm going to say keyboard options.
And I'm going to pass.
The keyboard type to be the keyboard type that we are passing along as a parameter.
Let's see, it looks like something is not quite right in here and if I changed.
All right, let's continue.
That will change later.
The I am action, I'm going to pass the enemy action as such.
All right, this should be keyboard options, not actions.
OK.
That's why.
OK, now we're going to add the keyboard options.
Actions, that is.
And we just passed on action keyboard that we passed along in our parameters.
And let's go and give some color is going to change a few things here.
Now we are going to have to override the text field defaults right like this and say, outlined field
colors and we'll pass our own colors.
It looks like it always does this.
Let's get rid of all that.
All right.
So I'm going to say for focused border color is going to be colored dark blue so we can change it to
whatever we want, of course.
But blue is fine.
I want to change the cursor color to color that black again.
It's just my choice.
You can change to whatever you want.
Keep in mind that this is part of compose how easy it is for us to actually update or customize our
views.
Right?
OK, so what else do we need here?
Let's see.
Let's finalize that one.
And then I'm going to pass a shape around this is going to be a rounded corners shape and I'm going
to just pass it 15 dpi percentage for all sides.
Yes, I know a lot of things.
Are we typing here, modifier?
But he will see, let's say, Phil Max width.
And I'm going to padding.
I'm going to give a start pairing of about 10 deep and end of about also 10 deep such.
OK.
And let's finalize everything that's good.
Now we have a problem here for a search query state which we haven't created, it's OK.
We're going to create right now.
So back to a search bar where the common text field has been called.
I'm going to create a few variables here.
So the first one is going to be the search query state.
As the name implies, it's going to be state.
Right?
So I'm going to use the remember savable because I want this to retain its state, even if we end up
having rotation configuration changes.
So that is a different flavor of just remember, remember when you rotate the phone, the state is going
to be recreate, the state is going to be lost.
But we remember savable that won't be lost.
So it's always nice to do that, especially when we are dealing with forms or text fields.
Because we don't want to lose this state, wanted to lose what users have entered, if there is some
sort of configuration rotation changes there, that makes sense.
OK, so what's it lambda?
And we can go ahead and put mutable state of empty value at first.
OK, the next one, I'm going to let's put that in one line.
Good.
Next, I'm going to create a keyboard controller because we need that.
And this needs to.
And for that, we have to say local software, keyboard controller, get current like this.
Now you see that we have a problem here because this is an experimental API, which means it's likely
to change in the future.
We must we we need we have to add this experimental compose UI annotation for this work.
So we do that and I'm going to invalidate our field.
So I'm going to put that inside of yet another state called valid.
Someone say, remember?
It just used to remember like this, and I'm going to pass.
Also what calculations I want to make.
So the variable that we want to operate on it for our valid state in this case is going to be our search
query state that value.
OK.
It's almost like the input that we're going to use to check whether whatever users enter here is valid
or not.
So inside here, I'm going to say search query that value.
I'm going to trim that and then is not empty, so I'm going to return true.
If it's not empty, if it's empty, it's going to be false, which is not invalidated.
All right.
Yes, a little trick there.
Now you can see search query state is looking good.
All right.
So this feed is getting really long.
So we're going to stop here and next.
We are going to continue working on our search bar and then hopefully see something in our screen.